{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Thanks for downloading SixtyFourSwitcher!\ulnone \
\
Did you know that there's a quasi-hidden feature in Snow Leopard that will make your Macintosh run faster at the expense of some backward compatibility? Or are you a Mac Pro or Xserve user that has to revert to the older kernel in order to use older software?\
\
SixtyFourSwitcher is a preference pane that makes it easy for users to switch between booting using the 32-bit version of the Mac OS X kernel and the corresponding 64-bit version. Why would anyone want to do this? Because the 64-bit kernel is considerably faster than the 32-bit kernel, with the downside being that it is not compatible with older kernel extensions, and software that relies on the old extensions.\
\
SixtyFourSwitcher requires:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Mac OS X 10.6 ("Snow Leopard") or later\
{\listtext	\'95	}Intel-based Mac\
{\listtext	\'95	}64-bit CPU (Intel Xeon, Core 2 Duo, etc.)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
SixtyFourSwitcher will run under Mac OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") or 10.5 ("Leopard"), but it won't do anything under those versions of the OS, because they didn't ship with 64-bit kernels, and there's no way to get a 64-bit kernel to work with those OS versions. It will also run on Macs with 32-bit CPUs (which were the Core Solo and the original Core Duo), but once again, it won't do anything there.\
\
SixtyFourSwitcher will not run on PowerPC-based Macs at all, since it would serve no function on PPC-based Macs. Apple has never shipped a 64-bit kernel for PowerPC Macs, and most likely never will.\
\
SixtyFourSwitcher is free software. You'll always be able to find the latest version at the SixtyFourSwitcher home page:\
\
Source code is available at:\
\
\
\ul How to install\ulnone \
\
Just double-click on the preference pane "SixtyFourSwitcher.prefPane" in the disk image you downloaded, and System Preferences will launch and install the pane for you.\
\
\
\ul How to uninstall\ulnone \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1)	}In the Finder, choose "Go to folder" in the Go menu.\
{\listtext	2)	}Type "~/Library/PreferencePanes" if you originally chose to install the preference pane for yourself, or "/Library/PreferencePanes" if you chose to install it for everyone.\
{\listtext	3)	}Drag the preference pane "SixtyFourSwitcher.prefPane" to the trash.\
{\listtext	4)	}Although SixtyFourSwitcher does not save any preferences file to your disk, it does change your computer's NVRAM. To reset the values in the NVRAM back to their default values, you need to restart your Mac and press and hold Command-Option-P-R after the screen goes dark and the boot sound plays. Release those keys after you see/hear it restart a second time.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\ul How to use\ulnone \
\
When you first enter the preference pane, you should see a radio button allowing you to switch the kernel that is used on startup. By default, the selected kernel will be the one you are currently using, or will use after restarting.\
\
As with other preference panes, you'll also probably need to unlock the pane at startup using an administrator password. You do this the same way you do it in every other preference pane.\
\
If the option to choose the 64-bit kernel is not available, then that means that either:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1)	}You are using Tiger or Leopard, neither of which shipped with a 64-bit kernel. Sorry, but you need to upgrade to Snow Leopard if that is the case.\
{\listtext	2)	}You are using a Mac with a 32-bit-only CPU. Your Mac must support 64-bit addressing in order to boot the 64-bit kernel. The Intel Core Solo and original Core Duo, which shipped with early Intel iMacs, Mac minis, and MacBooks, did not support 64-bit addressing.\
{\listtext	3)	}You used a third-party utility (probably Monolingual) to remove the 64-bit version of the kernel. In this case, you must re-install the OS before you can use the 64-bit kernel.\
{\listtext	4)	}Apple switched off of the Intel CPU architecture to some other architecture, and SixtyFourSwitcher has not yet been updated to support this new CPU architecture. (It could happen, but it doesn't seem very likely.)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
If the option to choose the 32-bit kernel is not available, then you probably stripped it out using a third-party utility. Again, you'll have to reinstall if this is the case. It might not appear as well if you're using a version of Mac OS X newer than Snow Leopard, and Apple removed the 32-bit kernel from the OS.\
\
Once you've made your change, it will not take effect until you restart your Mac. For your convenience, a "restart" button is included in the pane. (You can restart at any time using any means, though; it does not have to be done through this button.)\
\
SMALL WARNING: If you are one of the very, very few Mac users that supplies extra boot arguments to the kernel, e.g. forcing verbose mode, etc. then changing this setting will blow away those other boot arguments. Using this preference pane will not affect the 99.9% of you out there that don't do this.\
\
\
\ul Why use a 64-bit kernel?\ulnone \
\
Because it's faster. The 64-bit kernel significantly improves I/O across the board, because the kernel can hold much larger caches without running into the 4 GB VRAM limit of 32-bit processes. It also supports addressing large amounts of video RAM, and several other things. In addition, the AMD/Intel 64-bit CPU architecture contains a number of performance improvements over the older 32-bit CPU architecture that will make the kernel run slightly faster internally.\
\
Note that not all 64-bit architectures are faster. Nintendo's Nintendo 64 game console, for example, shipped with a 64-bit CPU, but almost all software for the console ran in 32-bit mode for performance reasons. The AMD/Intel 64-bit architecture is something of an anomaly here; if you want more details, then read the "AMD64" article on Wikipedia.\
\
The downside is, because the 64-bit kernel is a brand new feature of Snow Leopard, a lot of first- and third-party kernel extensions aren't available for the 64-bit kernel yet, most notably the myriad of kernel extensions that ship with Apple's Final Cut and Logic products. If you use software that depends on 32-bit kernel extensions, then you cannot use the 64-bit kernel yet, sorry.\
\
Also, using the 64-bit kernel may break some applications that depended on the contents of the sysctl key "hw.machine" to be "i386" (meaning Intel 32-bit) on Intel Macs, but this is not common.\
\
Also, the 64-bit kernel does use slightly more physical RAM due to the larger caches and larger pointer sizes, but unless you have an extreme RAM shortage, you probably won't notice the difference.\
\
Note that, even if the kernel is running in 64-bit mode, Mac OS X still supports launching 32-bit applications. Only kernel extensions are affected.\
\
\
\ul Why use a 32-bit kernel?\ulnone \
\
By default, unless you're using a 2008 or later model Mac Pro or Xserve, then the kernel starts up in 32-bit mode. 32-bit mode ensures maximum compatibility with older kernel extensions that haven't been written for the 64-bit kernel yet.\
\
Note that, even if the kernel is running in 32-bit mode, Mac OS X still supports launching 64-bit applications, and still supports addressing more than 4 GB of physical RAM through PAE (Physical Address Extension). Only kernel extensions are affected.\
\
\
\ul How do I tell if the 64-bit kernel is running or not?\ulnone \
\
In Activity Monitor, set the window to show all processes, then look for the process with a PID value of 0. This is the kernel. If the process kind is "Intel (64 bit)", then it means that the 64-bit kernel is in use. If the process kind is just "Intel", then it means that the 32-bit kernel is in use. (If you don't see the PID or Kind table columns, you can turn them on in the View menu.)\
\
\
\ul Does going 64-bit inhibit my computer's ability to boot into other 32-bit kernels (Leopard, Windows XP, etc.)?\ulnone \
\
No; the setting is only honored by Snow Leopard & later. In other words, if you set Snow Leopard to boot the 64-bit kernel, and you go back to Leopard for some reason, then Leopard will boot normally.\
\
\
\ul What's with the icon?\ulnone \
\
Yes, I intentionally chose to go with a retro icon. The icon is a tribute to Connectix's MODE32 system extension.\
\
For those of you who weren't Mac users back when Mac OS 7 came out in 1991, Mac OS 7 added support for 32-bit addressing, but Apple shipped several 32-bit computers that couldn't use it because of design flaws. MODE32 was an ingenious system extension that worked around those flaws.\
\
SixtyFourSwitcher doesn't correct any design flaws, but it does allow you to get the most out of Snow Leopard's 64-bit addressing feature.\
\
\
\ul Hey! Want to do a localization?\ulnone \
\
I am willing to accept and publish third-party localizations of my software. Localizing this preference pane is not a big project, since there is only one nib and very few localizable strings. If you're interested, then install Xcode if you haven't done so already, and download the source code; all of the resources that can be localized are in the "English.lproj" folder. Contact me if you have any questions.\
\
\
\ul Version History\ulnone \
\
1.0 ():\
First release.}